# Magento-QuickBooksOnline Integration
Transfers sales data from a Magento-hosted, e-commerce website to a QuickBooks Online account  


## License
Copyright 2017 Paolo Villadarez

This code cannot be used, copied, or redistributed without express consent from the author.
Please contact villadarez@gmail.com for permission to use this code.


## Functional Specification

### Objective
Lab International has chosen QuickBooks Online as their primary accounting and inventory management
software. However, online sales receipts are recorded only into Magento, an e-commerce development
platform, which hosts the humanheartnature.ca website. Data integration software is needed to
reconcile online transactions made through the website with Lab International's QuickBooks Online
account.


### Functional Requirements
1. All receipts from online sales must be transferred exactly once into QuickBooks Online. An
   imported QuickBooks Online sales receipt will have the following information filled in:
   - Customer display name
   - Sales receipt number, retrieved from the Magento sales receipt identifier (unique)
   - Customer email
   - Billing address
   - Shipping address
   - Shipping method
   - Invoice timestamp
   - Payment method
   - Invoice number, retrieved from the Magento invoice identifier (unique)
   - Account to deposit to; specified through user preference
   - Product name, SKU, description, quantity, rate, amount, class, and sales tax
   - Discount amount, if provided
   - Shipping cost, if provided. The shipping amount can either be recorded into the designated
     discount field or recorded as a service, depending on user preference.
   - Total amount received

2. Imported sales receipts must be linked to a QuickBooks Online customer. If the customer that owns
   the sales receipt does not already exist in QuickBooks Online at the time of the data transfer,
   then a new customer will be created in QuickBooks Online. The customer email address will be used
   as the unique key to identify a customer. The following fields must be filled in when creating a
   new customer:
   - Display name (unique)
   - First name
   - Middle name, if provided
   - Last name
   - Email address (unique)
   - Billing address
   - Shipping address

3. The functionality to exclude export data based on a given lower date boundary for the export date
   range must be provided. This is in case the Magento database contains test data or a partial data
   transfer has already been performed.

4. The mapping of tax codes between Magento and QuickBooks Online must be configurable.


### Design Constraints
1. The only stable hosting environment for this program is the Linux server that is hosting the
   website.

2. The program should be fully automated.

3. The Magento code has been heavily modified and is supported by a third-party developer.
   Modification of Magento assets for this project should be avoided in order to not
   interfere with possible Magento development in the future. Consistent behavior from the Magento
   API is not guaranteed.


## Technical Specification

### Prerequisites
1. Java Runtime Environment 8
2. Magento version 1.7
3. Cron
4. The QuickBooks Online account must have:
   - A custom field for the purpose of storing the invoice timestamp toggled on
   - Shipping toggled on
   - Discount toggled on


### Usage
```
Program:     Magento_QBO_Integration 1.2
Description: Performs data transfer operations between a Magento MySQL database and QuickBooks Online (QBO)

Positional arguments:
   arg1:             Operation to execute:
                     mag_to_qbo - Transfer data from a Magento database to QBO
                     mag_to_file - Serialize data from a Magento database to a file
                     file_to_qbo - Deserialize a file that was generated by this program into QBO

Named arguments:
   --user, -u        Magento database user
   --password, -p    Password for the Magento database user
   --bean, -b        Location of the file to extract from or load to when performing mag_to_file or file_to_qbo operations
   --config, -c      Location of this program's configuration file; mandatory argument
   --taxcodes, -t    Location of this program's tax code mapping file
   --logging, -l     Location of the logging configuration file
```


### Configuration
The following configurations can be performed by modifying the following keys found in the
configuration file that would be passed into the program through the '--config' argument.
- quickbooks.depositto:          Account which the sales revenue will be deposited to
- quickbooks.invoicedatefield:   Custom field position for invoice timestamp
- quickbooks.maxlookback:        Minimum date boundary used for requirement #3
- quickbooks.classname:          Name of the class to assign Magento sales receipts to
- quickbooks.payment.creditcard: Payment type name for credit card transactions
- quickbooks.payment.paypal:     Payment type name for paypal transaction
- quickbooks.shipping.sku:       SKU for shipping service. If this is not defined, then the shipping
                                 charge will be placed in the designated shipping line.
- quickbooks.timediff:           Amount of hours to add or subtract to the invoice time to account
                                 for timezone differences
